---
id: 186
title: Bangalore
date: 2016-03-19T01:14:28+00:00
author: anupamsobti
layout: post
guid: http://anupamsobti.com/?p=186
permalink: /2016/03/19/bangalore/
dsq_thread_id:
  - "6139360864"
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
My first day in Bangalore is something I vividly remember. I had been recruited by Qualcomm through campus placement. This was the first time I was travelling alone, without my parents to somewhere far from home. We reached the hotel around noon and immediately went to explore some nearby places. I was staying at the company accommodation, which was at ECC road. We took a bus from the main road and went to the ITPL Park Square where I called a few brokers and got to home searching. My dad had given me a list of brokers in my area which would simplify the process.

I was more excited about living in this new city than I was intimidated. We found a nice house, with a grumpy owner though. It was only after a few days that I realized it was very important to consider the person you would be interacting with apart from looking at the property/amenities being offered. Overall, home was good. A mere acquaintance, Sumit turned out to be a great partner for home. Sometimes, things just happen by luck, I guess. Sumit took care of all things at home without making us realize so. From opening the door for the maid in the mornings to paying them on time. Everything was taken care. I was responsible for dealing with matters like bargaining with the owner, getting new materials (gas, maintenance stuff etc). We always had this setting though I couldn&#8217;t be as subtle about it as he was. Mahadev and Hariharan joined us at home owing to the 3BHK we had. Mahadev continued to stay with us till the time I moved out, though Hariharan moved out after a few months. They were both good at what they did. Coming from Trivandrum, they were culturally very different from me and Sumit, who belonged to Delhi. They both worked in the analog domain, which was relatively unknown to me since I had been working on the Digital Electronics domain. Mahadev always kept me amazed with the depth of knowledge he had about things, from digital to analog, manufacturing to programming and just simple electronics concepts.

Work was great. The feeling of working in a Multinational Company was finally sinking in. The seniors around were helpful, though understandably busy. I got to work from the very beginning taking help from a few others who had joined a few days before us. The company hosted a Campus to Corporate program where we were supposed to make a video about how to succeed in Qualcomm. It served as a great way to gel up with our colleagues. It was amazing to find so many awesome people in one place. There were people from the most prestigious institutions in India, IITs, NITs, etc. and all of them had come together under one roof trying to make a video about &#8220;How to succeed at Qualcomm?&#8221;. I took up the video editing although I didn&#8217;t know much about it but it was a good way to be involved throughout the process. We thoroughly enjoyed the program and made some good friends.

A few days later, our team&#8217;s manager called all the new recruits to a room along with the Lead Engineers who were supposed to take us in their current projects. There were different approaches different leads followed. Some of them had one on one sessions with the new joinees, some of them were probably too busy in execution that they asked the newcomers to settle down until they had time. A few iterations later, we knew what we were going to work on. These were amazingly talented people. These were people who define what it means to be in an industry for 5-7 years and being at the company which was probably the biggest semiconductor company at the time.

I made some great friends during this time. Being in North India all of my life, I hardly had any experience with diversity of languages and cultures. It was great to see people from different backgrounds, cultures, education systems etc. coming together and doing what they did best, VLSI. All of these folks had dedicated a huge portion of their lives into making the best possible chips a semiconductor company could make. At this point, seeing everything from the eyes of a fresher, I didn&#8217;t see politics, I saw rewarding initiatives, enthusiasm, energy, unity in diversity and brilliance around me. Some of the friends made this feeling very easy to go with. Our group of 4, Roopak, Sujith, Piyush and myself were always hanging out together, playing foosball whenever possible, the office chit-chat and sometimes good intellectual discussions. There were others like Aalok, Deepti, Vilas who also interacted for quite some time. Aalok was the tech guy, always interested in DIY and the latest tech in the market. Deepti was the table-tennis girl. She somehow always managed to beat me at TT, quite convincingly 😛

I spent majority of my time in office, apart from work, in our group of 4. This was something I never had before. A group where all of us had a personality of our own, yet came together and were able to discuss the things about life in general. We were all from different cities and backgrounds. We&#8217;d had our own struggles and experiences in life which were very different from one another. It was amazing. Time went past pretty easy. I had joined the part-time Master&#8217;s in Microelectronics as well, which Qualcomm offered to its employees in collaboration with BITS Pilani. The same feeling of diverse people coming together with all their brilliance was beautiful. The teachers were passionate. Some of them had over 20 years of experience in the industry, yet taught, just because they liked teaching. Another group of fun people, Kajal, Jatin, Shruti, Anish and myself found ourselves in the same boat. I think it was only by the second semester, that all of us started studying together. The presence of these folks, made the MS infinitely easier. All of them were brilliant at something or the other. At all times, throughout the MS, some of us were always very busy with work. At this point, the meetups became so much helpful. We explained things to each other, figured out strategies to go through subjects. It was one hell of a journey. The things I would distinctly remember from this phase would be the morning dosa meetups, the going out for lunch to Shubhalakshmi and Sai Foods and sometimes, the super-saturated last slides of a subject which nobody understood but just went along to finish it off. 😛

As time went by, Piyush decided to do a job for the others rather than for himself and went to pursue coaching for IES. We never had the same foosball sessions again. We were all impressed by the conviction he had for what he wanted to do. He resigned first, then told others that he had decided to do so. Me and Sujith became great friends. We shared a different kind of brotherhood. He made me realize the importance of simple things in life. He was a passionate trekker who liked to explore things. There was one trek we did together which I&#8217;ll never forget, the one to Sharavathi Valley. This was the toughest I had done.

Things started getting hectic at work. One of the downsides of working at a place as big as Qualcomm is that you don&#8217;t get to work on things from end to end. Work is always divided into separate teams and communication becomes the key. If you have a good interaction with the people who are responsible for your receivables/deliverables, you would be good as long as you&#8217;re doing your job well. I took some time to understand this.

Meanwhile, I started cycling. This was my first time taking cycle for mainstream transport since my native place, Delhi was too rash to do so both in weather and temperament. Cycling is awesome. You start feeling so many things when you&#8217;re on a cycle. The inclination of the road, the beauty of your surroundings, the rise in heart rate after a vigorous peddling session, the difference in the temperature of air when you leave an hour before your usual time. I enjoyed cycling a lot. I also started cycling long distances like 15-20 kms. There is one thing long distance rides teach you. If you keep going, you will reach. No matter how slow or tired you are. Cycling in the rain along with heavy winds made me realize the power of nature. I remember this one time where I couldn&#8217;t balance the cycle properly because of heavy wind from one side 🙂 My rockrider 5.1 was a great companion. Never giving up on whatever stress I put it through.

In a random discussion with a friend Bhargava, he suggested I go for Scuba Diving with a group called Nirvana Nomads. I went for scuba diving, with a group of unknown people, through Nirvana Nomads. I am always fascinated with what people are capable of. It was a great experience travelling with people who were not known to me. I thought I would get bored, but it was rather enjoyable. I got to meet people of different backgrounds, doing different jobs and well, Scuba Diving was awesome. I wasn&#8217;t scared at all, but rather excited about staying under water for so long and exploring the hidden world.

I became more and more spiritually active with the awesome time that I was having here at Bangalore. I used to cycle 15kms in the morning to the Ashram where we had a one hour meditation session. The session was followed by delicious breakfast. I used to cycle back with peace of mind and contentment of the soul. An old family friend, Niharika didi used to live nearby, who introduced me to Brother Ramanna for individual sittings. Brother Ramanna&#8217;s place was magical. You could feel the divine presence once you enter his home. The sittings I had with him were better than ever before. Once, we planned a trip to Kolar for a meditation session which some of the preceptors in Bangalore were going to conduct there. It was followed by some good discussion on the journey towards the ultimate goal. I remember Brother Nagaraj telling us about his initial struggle with meditation and how he was about to give up.

As days went by, I learnt how to manage the work-life balance in office. It&#8217;s about time management, really. Even though the volume of work was too much, I found myself not being very productive during the day initially due to continuous interruptions. I took some time to automate things which were killers of both time and productivity. I automated some of my daily tasks on the laptop with AutoHotKey. I wrote Python for automation of exhaustive tasks related to BIST. These were easily some of the most complex programs I had written in quite some time. I learnt the importance of saying &#8220;No&#8221;. The most important thing I learnt at work was probably asking when you were in doubt and talking to people. Continuous uninterrupted sessions are the next most important component of work, where majority of the work happens.

One fine day, a new guy joined our team from Freescale Semiconductors, Kushal. I find it very difficult to make new friends but he had a way with people. I didn&#8217;t realize it at that time but we became very good friends in a very little time. He was certainly a person with &#8220;experience&#8221;, as we call it. Not just about work, but about life. I found a great mentor in him. His ability to be humble while learning, aggressive while executing and patient while listening were amazing. He is a great inspiration for me in many walks of life. I found a friend for life in him, someone I see as an elder brother. We had some great moments together in personal as well as professional life. I had my first patent filed with him and Sneha, another great colleague at work. We made some DIY Projects like the Infinity Mirror and the 3D Hologram viewer. It was something about him I guess, that my list of things which I wanted to make was getting realized. We had great fun making these. The group became bigger with Siddi and Pankhuri also joining in, Kushal&#8217;s friends from Freescale and my first year pal Siddi Sir 🙂 I&#8217;ll miss the great teas we had together and the conversations which made me think out loud. I guess it gave a better perspective to me about who I was. I got to know myself better.

Another interesting lady I met in Bangalore was Kritika. She was from a very different background, having done her Masters in Design. I knew &#8220;nothing&#8221; about design. After spending some time with the work she was doing, I realized the importance of good design in all of the work we do in life. It is amazing how some of the great designs go unnoticed. While creating something new, putting in that extra effort makes a big difference.

What will I remember Bangalore for?

Difficult to say. The conversations, the late night teas, the weather, cycling, the drives I went for at night to drop my friends home. That&#8217;s not all ofcourse, there are always things you can&#8217;t put into words. I&#8217;ll miss the soul of Bangalore. I was going to take a lot of things with me. I left Bangalore to pursue my dream of becoming a professor. I was going to join as a PhD scholar at IIT Delhi and thus here I am signing off from Bangalore.